name,type,reason
pm_shPPPMER,input,added by codeCheck
pm_gdp,input,added by codeCheck
pm_globalMeanTemperatureZeroed1900,input,added by codeCheck
pm_temperatureImpulseResponseCO2,input,added by codeCheck
pm_GDPGross,input,added by codeCheck
pm_interpolWeight_ttot_tall,input,added by codeCheck
pm_tall_2_ttot,input,added by codeCheck
cm_damages_BurkeLike_specification,input,added by codeCheck
cm_damages_BurkeLike_persistenceTime,input,added by codeCheck
cm_damage_KWSE,input,added by codeCheck
pm_regionalTemperature,input,added by codeCheck
pm_tempScaleGlob2Reg,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageGrowthRate,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageMarginal,input,added by codeCheck
pm_GDPfrac,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageImp,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageMarginalT,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageMarginalTm1,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageMarginalTm2,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageProd,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageTC,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageGrowthRateTC,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageMarginalTC,input,added by codeCheck
pm_GDPGrossIso,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageIso,input,added by codeCheck
pm_damageGrowthRateIso,input,added by codeCheck
